Humor that works really well,
is usually self deprecating humor.
Meaning when ya, when you make fun of yourself
in some kind of authentic way.
Okay?
Or you make fun of your own product in some way
that is self deprecating from a corporate perspective.
Especially when there's a massive anticipation
of a product being released.
Alright?
And here's an awesome example, right?
In 2007, when Steve Jobs gave the epic introduction
of the iPhone speech, before he showed the iPhone,
or what it would look like,
he actually threw this up. Right?
It's pretty funny. Pretty funny.
Right?
And I even saw Warren Buffett's presents
and he said that, what did he say again?
Oh, yeah, he said, "I'm getting older
and I'm getting closer to salvage value now."
Right? Which in finance and accounting terms means
an item that, that's being depreciated quite quickly.
Anyway, it's funny.
And making fun of yourself works exceptionally well.
And I personally believe that humility
is a universally liked trait. Right?
It takes a man to suffer ignorance and smile.
So, you know, be yourself no matter what they say.
And you know what, if the audience doesn't laugh,
which occurs when I throw up this pie chart,
(crickets chirping)
hear those crickets?
That happens to me a lot.
Then I kinda look down and I embarrassly say,
"Gosh, tough crowd, tough crowd."
But you know what, that humility, right,
where no one laughs, right, where you feel embarrassed,
I think it, I might be wrong,
but I think it actually makes you more likable.
Because it shows vulnerability, right?
Which is an admirable trait because it's a normal,
human feeling, right, to feel vulnerable.
And you know, more often than not, you win over the audience
by being you, by being you.
And Bill Gates has a wonderful sense of humor.
And he makes fun of himself a lot.
He makes fun of himself trying to be cool.
Kind of like I do, right, I know I'm not cool.
See here, dab, is that how it works?
Or is it this way?
Alright, anyway, sorry.
Embarrassing, I know.
Okay, but Bill Gates is so much happier now that he's
making the world a better place.
Good guy, God bless him, good for him.
And if you want to experiment with a low, low,
low budget video of yourself you can do so.
And I'll give you an example in a couple minutes
of one that I did.
But here's the example, first,
of a probably not so low budget video that
Bill Gates made, which was very self deprecating.
And he showed this video, and it was awesome,
on his last day of work at Microsoft.
And I love this, right.
I love the fact that, you know,
Bill Gates really makes fun of himself.
It makes him instantly much more likable.
Right, so check out this video of him
that he released to the public on the last day
of him being the CEO of Microsoft.
Check that out, it's funny.
(light jazz music)
And we're gonna study wedding speeches in act number 11.
But during my wedding speech, eight million years ago,
in the year 2000, wow, a long time ago,
I put together a very self deprecating video.
And I actually, I started giving the speech
at my wedding reception at 6pm,
which was a couple hours after the church ceremony,
and I got up there and I gave a quick speech,
and I basically, I started the speech by saying
you know, thank you, everybody for coming
and all that good stuff, and then I say
I almost didn't make it to the church today.
You know, something happened.
And I want to share with you what happened.
Right, and so I showed this,
I showed this, uh, I showed this video.
I had a lot of fun doing it, too.
Anyway, check that out if you get a chance.
It's pretty fun.
But I, I have to be honest with you.
You know, things really didn't work out this morning,
with the groomsmen and I.
In fact, things were pretty chaotic.
Things got so crazy that I decided
to videotape the entire event.
And I kind of want to share it with you today.
(audience chatter)
So, without further ado, I'd like to present
the video.
(light music)
(birds chirping)
How'd you guys sleep last night?
[Woman With Pink Towel] I couldn't sleep for a while.
How about you?
[Woman In White Robe] Oh, I slept very well.
Really?
Yeah, yeah it was good.
I went to bed around 9:30 or 10.
[Woman In Pink Robe] Oh my god.
Yeah
I wonder what the guy's are doing.
Oh, I'm sure they're doing okay. This is pretty much,
pretty well organized. Probably waiting at the church
as we speak right now.
Really?
Yeah.
(light music)
(birds chirping)
(record scratch)
Ah! I'm late!
(polka music)
Chris! I want to have a word with you.
Dad, I'm running late for the wedding.
Come here.
(suspenseful music)
I hear that you're getting married today.
Yeah to Christine. She's fantastic.
Christine is a lovely girl.
We all met her, and we all love her.
Sit down, son.
Okay, dad.
(Chris coughing)
I have a word of the wise for you.
Keep your friends close but keep your wife closer.
(polka music)
Oh, breakfast of champions.
Oh my god, I'm running late.
Oh, the ring! The ring!
Ah, she's gonna love this.
Whoops!
Fluffy! No!
Amy, Jamey!
Chris, come on, let's go!
We're late, we're late!
You don't understand!
The cat ate the ring!
What?
What do I do?
The cat ate the ring.
What are you talking about?
The cat ate the ring!
No, it can't be!
Chris, you come here, you drive.
You get to the wedding, I'll get the ring.
Alright, alright, alright.
Come on, let's go!
(polka music)
I hear that you have been having some abdominal pain,
something that physicians actually requested
a radiograph of your abdomen.
Are there any emotional problems, problems at home,
depression, symptoms of like, poor eating?
Is something wrong?
(twinkling music)
Radiographs actually demonstrate buttons, odd coins,
and other consumed items like jewelry.
We need to discuss this.
Talk to me.
(twinkling music)
Talk to me!
We clearly have issues to discuss.
I'm late!
(fast paced music)
Fluffy!
Fluffy! Cough it up!
Fluffy come on! Cough it up!
(fast paced music)
Fluffy, please try some Pepto Bismol, please.
Come on, Fluffy, come on.
Please, Fluffy, please!
(fast paced music)
The ring! The ring!
Oh my god, I've got to get to the wedding!
♫ Going to the chapel and we're
♫ Gonna get married
Hey Soil, how's it going buddy?
Hey listen, I'm coming to pick you up.
Are you ready?
Yeah, 10 minutes. Come right now.
Alright, well, I'll be right over.
Buddy, let's go! We've got to pick up the other groomsmen.
They've got all the alcohol for the reception.
Ready?
I'm alright. I hate my job.
Oh really? Don't worry about it man.
Let's go to the wedding.
(horn honking)
Guys, come on. Let's go!
(lazy music)
Guys, wait up, I'll be right there.
Guys?
(polka music)
Gonna get married.
Goin' to the church
(circus music)
Did you feel something?
Yeah, I did. Come on.
Guys come on, move the car.
(polka music)
(car horn honking)
Whoa, whoa, whoa. You're going off the road!
Whoa!
(tires screeching)
(car horn honking)
Ah!
(bubbling water)
Guys!
I'll come after you!
(spring bouncing noise)
Whoa!
(heart beating)
(persevering music)
(wedding march)
Meow
Okay, again, I was terrified, but you know what?
People never know how scared you are, right.
You're never as terrified, you never look as terrified
as you feel.
And at that beginning point, when I was introducing,
you know, before the whole crazy video,
and the cat thing started, when I was standing there
with Christine, my wife, in my tux, I was terrified, man.
I was terrified.
I think I'm a better presenter now, a lot better
because I just don't care anymore, what people think.
I don't know if that's a good thing, but anyway.
I'm gonna show you how to make a way, way,
way, way, better speech in act number 11.
(staccato music)
I saw the most amazing motorcycle
when I was about 12 years old.
When I was living in Mississauga.
Okay, Mississauga is just outside of Toronto.
The motorcycle was a Ducati and it was beautiful.
It was back in the 80s and it looked just like this.
Okay?
I was with my best friend Sohill
and we were a couple blocks away from my house.
And we saw this beautiful Ducati motorcycle
parked on the driveway, and of course
I had to sit on it, right.
And it was gorgeous but it was way too big for me.
Right, way too big, right.
And I remember I was kind of teetering like this on it,
and when I got off the Ducati the whole thing
fell down, right.
And it smashed the orange lights.
I'll never forget it.
On the side of it.
And I did, right at that moment, right.
I did what you would expect someone of my,
I did what you would expect someone of my impeccable
moral character would do.
I looked around, and I ran as fast as I could.
Right, I ran and I wasn't coming back.
And I looked around, and I saw Sohill looking at me
and he said, "Chris! That's not right, come back!"
Alright, so I came back. I came back, right.
My friend Sohill.
He's very honest, so you gotta love him, right.
I said, "yeah, yeah, yeah"
And walked back, nervously to the bike, right.
And I was scared, I was scared.
And a neighbor next to the house of the bike owner
walked over to us and said,
"What is your name, son?
And what is your phone number?"
And to make a long story short,
my mom paid for the repairs to the bike.
And I had to pay her back every week out of my allowance
for about a year or so.
And I learned a very, very valuable lesson that day.
Which was never, ever, ever would I talk to Sohill again.
Okay, okay.
Of course, this has to be a relevant story, too, right.
So it would be amazing if I was discussing
a beautifully designed product at some product release event
or corporate speech and then I could,
I could talk about the Ducati and that sort of thing,
et cetera, I think you get the idea.
So humor and self deprecation works in a speech
and it works really, really well when you tell a story
at the same time.
And I think the audience really identifies with it
and enjoys it as well.
♫ It takes a man to suffer ignorance and smile
♫ Be yourself no matter what they say